# dbt_iterable_source v0.8.0

## API Updates
[PR #28](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/pull/28) includes updates in response to the [Aug 2023 updates](https://fivetran.com/docs/applications/iterable/changelog#august2023) for the Iterable connector.

For customers using the new August 2023 schema, please note the following changes:
-  We have removed `user_device_history` as the value is marginal.
- We now allow for custom fields to be brought through in the `event` and `user` tables
- Added the fields `updated_by_user_id` and `message_medium` to `stg_iterable__campaign_history`
- Added the fields `_fivetran_id` and `_fivetran_user_id` to `stg_iterable__event`
- Added the fields `catalog_collection_count, catalog_lookup_count, city, clicked_url, country, error_code, expires_at, from_phone_number, in_app_body, is_sms_estimation, labels, message_context, message_status, mms_send_count, product_recommendation_count, proxy_source, reason, sms_send_count, web_push_body, web_push_click_action, web_push_icon, web_push_message, _fivetran_synced, and _fivetran_user_id` to  `stg_iterable__event_extension`
- Added the fields `list_description` to `stg_iterable__list`
- Added the fields `message_type_created_at, frequency_cap, rate_limit_per_minute, subscription_policy, and message_type_updated_at` to `stg_iterable__message_type`
- Added the field `iterable_user_id` to `stg_iterable__user_history`

## Bug Fixes
- Explicitly cast the `email_list_ids` field in the `stg_iterable__user_history` model to be a string. This ensures the JSON as string operations in the downstream models are not impacted by errors if the connector syncs this field as a JSON datatype. 

## Under the Hood:
- The unique test in `stg_iterable__event_extension` and `stg_iterable__event_extension` now tests for a unique combination of `event_id` and `_fivetran_user_id`. Previously it was just `event_id`, but now that `event_id` isn't the unique key, we're leveraging `_fivetran_user_id`, a key generated by taking hash of user_id and/or email fields depending on the project type.
- The unique test in `stg_iterable__user_history` now tests for a unique combination of `fivetran_id` and `updated_at`. Previously it was just email, however with the Iterable schema updates, that may not exist for each user. This is because based on the channel, not all users have an associated email, particularly if it's marketing done via a project type based on user ID where an email identifier may not be unique.  `fivetran_id` is generated by taking hash of user_id and/or email fields depending on the project type. For more information refer to the Iterable [docs](https://support.iterable.com/hc/en-us/articles/9216719179796-Project-Types-and-Unique-Identifiers-).
- Past August 2023, the `user_unsubscribed_channel_history` and `user_unsubscribed_message_type_history` Iterable objects will no longer be history tables. In addition, the columns have changed. We have checks in place that will automatically persist the respective columns depending on what exists in your schema.
  - In addition, we have added generated keys to these 2 tables that we will use for uniqueness tests. The unique key generated depends on whether you are using the history version of the 2 tables. For more information, refer to our [documentation](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/blob/main/models/stg_iterable.yml).


# dbt_iterable_source v0.7.0
## 🎉 Feature Update 🎉
- Databricks compatibility! ([#25](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/pull/25))

## 🚘 Under the Hood 🚘
- Incorporated the new `fivetran_utils.drop_schemas_automation` macro into the end of each Buildkite integration test job. ([#24](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/pull/24))
- Updated the pull request [templates](/.github). ([#24](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/pull/24))

# dbt_iterable_source v0.6.0
## 🚨 Breaking Changes 🚨
- Added `iterable_[source_table_name]_identifier` variables to allow easier flexibility of the package to refer to source tables with different names. 
- **Note!** For the table `campaign_suppression_list_history`, the identifier variable has been updated from `iterable__campaign_suppression_list_history_table` to `iterable_campaign_suppression_list_history_identifier` to align with the current naming convention. If you are using the former variable in your `dbt_project.yml`, you will need to update it for the package to run.
([#23](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/pull/23))


## 🎉 Features
- Updated README with identifier instructions and format update. ([#23](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/pull/23))

# dbt_iterable_source v0.5.0

## 🚨 Breaking Changes 🚨:
[PR #18](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/pull/18) includes the following breaking changes:
- Dispatch update for dbt-utils to dbt-core cross-db macros migration. Specifically `{{ dbt_utils.<macro> }}` have been updated to `{{ dbt.<macro> }}` for the below macros:
    - `any_value`
    - `bool_or`
    - `cast_bool_to_text`
    - `concat`
    - `date_trunc`
    - `dateadd`
    - `datediff`
    - `escape_single_quotes`
    - `except`
    - `hash`
    - `intersect`
    - `last_day`
    - `length`
    - `listagg`
    - `position`
    - `replace`
    - `right`
    - `safe_cast`
    - `split_part`
    - `string_literal`
    - `type_bigint`
    - `type_float`
    - `type_int`
    - `type_numeric`
    - `type_string`
    - `type_timestamp`
    - `array_append`
    - `array_concat`
    - `array_construct`
- For `current_timestamp` and `current_timestamp_in_utc` macros, the dispatch AND the macro names have been updated to the below, respectively:
    - `dbt.current_timestamp_backcompat`
    - `dbt.current_timestamp_in_utc_backcompat`
- Dependencies on `fivetran/fivetran_utils` have been upgraded, previously `[">=0.3.0", "<0.4.0"]` now `[">=0.4.0", "<0.5.0"]`.

# dbt_iterable_source v0.4.1
## 🎉 Documentation and Feature Updates
- Added variable `iterable__using_campaign_suppression_list_history` to disable `stg_iterable__campaign_suppression_list_history` if the respective source table is not being used. For how to configure refer to the [README](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/blob/main/README.md#enabling-and-disabling-models). ([#21](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable_source/pull/21)) 
## Contributors
Thank you @awpharr for raising these to our attention! ([#19](https://github.com/fivetran/dbt_iterable/issues/19))


# dbt_iterable_source v0.4.0
🎉 dbt v1.0.0 Compatibility 🎉
## 🚨 Breaking Changes 🚨
- Adjusts the `require-dbt-version` to now be within the range [">=1.0.0", "<2.0.0"]. Additionally, the package has been updated for dbt v1.0.0 compatibility. If you are using a dbt version <1.0.0, you will need to upgrade in order to leverage the latest version of the package.
  - For help upgrading your package, I recommend reviewing this GitHub repo's Release Notes on what changes have been implemented since your last upgrade.
  - For help upgrading your dbt project to dbt v1.0.0, I recommend reviewing dbt-labs [upgrading to 1.0.0 docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/guides/migration-guide/upgrading-to-1-0-0) for more details on what changes must be made.
- Upgrades the package dependency to refer to the latest `dbt_fivetran_utils`. The latest `dbt_fivetran_utils` package also has a dependency on `dbt_utils` [">=0.8.0", "<0.9.0"].
  - Please note, if you are installing a version of `dbt_utils` in your `packages.yml` that is not in the range above then you will encounter a package dependency error.

# dbt_iterable_source v0.1.0 -> v0.3.0
Refer to the relevant release notes on the Github repository for specific details for the previous releases. Thank you!
